Initial commit (#17585)
DataDog/integrations-core: traefik_mesh/README.md

# Agent Check: traefik_mesh

## Overview

Traefik Mesh is a lightweight and easy-to-deploy service mesh that offers advanced traffic management, security, and observability features for microservices applications, leveraging the capabilities of Traefik Proxy. With Datadog's Traefik integration, you can:
- Obtain insights into the traffic entering your service mesh.

> - Gain critical insights into the performance, reliability, and security of individual services within your mesh which ensure your services are operating efficiently while also helping to identify and resolve issues quickly.
> - Gain detailed insights into the internal traffic flows within your service mesh which help monitor performance, ensure reliability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Gain critical insights into the performance, reliability, and security of individual services within your mesh which ensures your services are operating efficiently while also helping to identify and resolve issues quickly.
- Gain detailed insights into the internal traffic flows within your service mesh which helps monitor performance and ensure reliability.
```

This check monitors [Traefik Mesh][1] through the Datadog Agent.

## Setup

Follow the instructions below to install and configure this check for an Agent running on a host. For containerized environments, see the [Autodiscovery Integration Templates][3] for guidance on applying these instructions.

### Installation

Starting from Agent release v7.55.0, the Traefik Mesh check is included in the [Datadog Agent][2] package. No additional installation is needed on your server.

**Note**: This check requires Agent v7.55.0 or later.

### Configuration

> Traefik Mesh can be configured to expose Prometheus-formatted metrics. The Datadog Agent can collect these metrics using the integration described below. Follow the instructions to configure data collection for your Traefik Mesh instances. For the required configurations to expose the Prometheus metrics, see the [Observability][10] page in the Traefik Mesh documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Traefik Mesh can be configured to expose Prometheus-formatted metrics. The Datadog Agent can collect these metrics using the integration described below. Follow the instructions to configure data collection for your Traefik Mesh instances. For the required configurations to expose the Prometheus metrics, see the [Observability page in the official Traefik Mesh documentation][10].
```

In addition, a small subset of metrics can be collected by communicating with different API endpoints. Specifically:

> - `/api/version`: Version information on the Traefik proxy
> - `/api/status/nodes`: Ready status of nodes visible by the Traefik [controller][12]
> - `/api/status/readiness`: Ready status of the Traefik controller

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `/api/version`: Version information on the Traefik proxy.
- `/api/status/nodes`: Ready status of nodes visible by the Traefik [controller][12].
- `/api/status/readiness`: Ready status of the Traefik controller.
```

**Note**: This check uses [OpenMetrics][11] for metric collection, which requires Python 3.

#### Containerized
##### Metric collection

> Make sure that the Prometheus-formatted metrics are exposed in your Traefik Mesh cluster. You can configure and customize this by following the instructions on the [Observability][10] page in the Traefik Mesh documentation. For the Agent to start collecting metrics, the Traefik Mesh pods need to be annotated. For more information about annotations, refer to the [Autodiscovery Integration Templates][3] for guidance. You can find additional configuration options by reviewing the [sample traefik_mesh.d/conf.yaml][4]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure that the Prometheus-formatted metrics are exposed in your Traefik Mesh cluster. You can configure and customize this by following the instructions on the [Observability page in the official Traefik Mesh documentation][10]. In order for the Agent to start collecting metrics, the Traefik Mesh pods need to be annotated. For more information about annotations, refer to the [Autodiscovery Integration Templates][3] for guidance. You can find additional configuration options by reviewing the [`traefik_mesh.d/conf.yaml` sample][4].
```

> **Note**: The listed metrics can only be collected if they are available. Some metrics are generated only when certain actions are performed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: The following metrics can only be collected if they are available. Some metrics are generated only when certain actions are performed.
```

> The two most important parameters for configuring the Traefik Mesh check are as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When configuring the Traefik Mesh check, you can use the following parameters:
```
